---
title: "AAG 2026 Call for Papers"
date: "2025-10-21"
description: "Together with James Gaboardi, we are organising a session at the AAG 2026 sponsored by the Spatial Analysis and Modeling specialty group, merging my two favourite topics - urban morphology and open data science. Join us!"
---

AAG Call for Papers for a session sponsored by the Spatial Analysis and Modeling specialty group.

## **Urban Morphology as Open Data Science: Advancements in Open Quantitative Assessment of City Structure**

We are coming to AAG (first time!) in March and together with James Gaboardi, we are organising a session merging my two favourite topics - urban morphology and open data science.  Join us!

Urban morphology - the study of the physical structure of (urban) settlements, their formation and transformation - is witnessing a rapid growth of a new branch of methods stemming from geography and open data science. These, represented typically either by Earth observation or urban morphometrics, change the scope, scale, and applicability of morphological analysis from case-study driven evolution of the field to a data driven one. They embrace the availability of open urban data, the latest developments in open source software, and a close connection with spatial data science and geography. In this session, we are looking for submissions illustrating this development, discussing its implications, or offering critiques enabling a rich discussion about the current state and future directions of open quantitative assessment of city structure.

We invite submissions on topics that may include (but are not limited to):

- Advancements in urban morphometrics
- Earth Observation for urban morphology
- Temporality of urban development
- Urban morphology in data-limited context
- Open tools
- Open data
- Critical perspectives
- Street network morphology
- Applications of morphological data

## Submission details

After registering and submitting your abstract to the conference itself, please send your abstract and AAG PIN to both Martin [martin.fleischmann@natur.cuni.cz](mailto:martin.fleischmann@natur.cuni.cz) and James [gaboardijd@ornl.gov](mailto:gaboardijd@ornl.gov) for consideration.
